Hello. Welcome back.
In this video,
you're going to learn how to
represent a text as a vector.
In order for you to do so,
you first have to build
a vocabulary and that
will allow you to
encode any text or any tweet
as an array of numbers.
So let's dive in and see
how you can do this.
Picture a list of tweets,
visually it would look like this.
Then your vocabulary, V,
would be the list of unique words
from your list of tweets.
To get that list,
you'll have to go through
all the words from
all your tweets and save
every new word that
appears in your search.
So in this example,
you'd have the word I,
then the word, am and happy,
because, and so forth.
But note that the
word I and the word
am would not be repeated
in the vocabulary.
Let's take this
tweets and extract
features using your vocabulary.
To do so, you'd have to check if
every word from your vocabulary
appears in the tweet.
If it does like in the
case of the word I,
you would assign a value of 1
to that feature, like this.
If it doesn't appear,
you'd assign a value
of 0, like that.
In this example, the
representation of your tweet would
have six ones and many zeros.
These correspond to
every unique word from
your vocabulary that
isn't in the tweet.
Now, this type of representation
with a small relative number of
non-zero values is called
a sparse representation.
Now let's take a closer look at
this representation
of these tweet.
In the last slides,
I walked you through extracting
features to represent the tweet
based on a vocabulary and
I arrived at this vector.
This representation
would have a number of
features equal to the size
of your entire vocabulary.
This would have a lot of
features equal to
0 for every tweet.
With the sparse representation,
a logistic regression
model would have
to learn n plus 1 parameters,
where n would be
equal to the size of
your vocabulary and you can
imagine that for large
vocabulary sizes,
this would be problematic.
It would take an excessive
amount of time to train
your model and much more time
than necessary to
make predictions.
Given a text, you learned
how to represent this text
as a vector of dimension
V. Specifically,
you did this for a tweet
and you were able to build
a vocabulary of dimension
V. Now as V gets
larger and larger,
you will face certain problems.
In the next video,
you will learn to
identify these problems.